Translator: Hamzeh Koumakli Auditor: Fatima Zahra El Hafa
I want to start first
By mentioning the qualifications that allow me to speak on this subject.
Because frankly, you should not listen
For any elderly person, express their opinion about Coved-19.
(Laughter)
So, I have been working in the global health field for about 20 years,
My technical specialist is in health systems
And what happens when these systems receive severe shocks.
She also worked in the global health press.
She wrote about global health and biosecurity
For newspapers and websites,
She published a book several years ago
On the major global health threats facing our planet.
Aid was provided and efforts made in the area of ​​epidemiology were led
That included assessment of Ebola treatment centers
And search for ways to transmit TB infection in health institutions
And the application of bird flu preparedness measures.
I hold a masters degree in global health.
I am neither a doctor nor a nurse.
My specialty is not patient care and does not include individual care.
Rather, my specialty is researching population groups and health systems
That is, I study what happens when diseases are transmitted and spread greatly.
If we classify global health resources and experts
On a scale from 1 to 10
Where Class 1 is someone shouting to Facebook,
Class 10 is the World Health Organization
I think you will give me a grade 7 or 8.
So, remember that I am speaking to you.
I will start with the basics
This is because I think she was forgotten and lost
Amid the media buzz around the Covid-19.
So, Cofid-19 is the Corona virus,
Corona viruses are a specific subset of viruses,
And it has a distinct viral characteristic.
Because its genetic material is RNA and not DNA,
And this virus is covered with thorns on its surface,
It uses these spines to invade cells.
These thorns are corona in corona viruses.
Covid 19 is a new virus from the Corona family and is well known
This is because until last December we had heard of 6 types of corona viruses.
And Covid-19 is the seventh.
So it is new to us,
He just got his genetic cascade and just got his name
So it is new to us.
If you remember SARS, which is acute respiratory distress syndrome
Or MERS, which is the Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome,
These viruses are corona viruses,
Both are called respiratory syndrome
This is because this is what corona viruses do.
It affects the lungs.
It does not make you throw up,
And it does not make you bleed from your eyes,
It does not cause any bleeding, but rather affects your lungs.
And Covid-19 is not different from it.
It causes a variety of respiratory symptoms
Which ranges from dry cough and fever
And even lethal viral pneumonia.
This great variety of symptoms is one of the reasons
That makes this outbreak so difficult.
A lot of people have covid-19,
But to a nice degree, their symptoms are mild
So much so that they do not even visit health care delivery centers.
They are not registered in health systems.
Children especially adapt easily to Covid-19,
This is what we must be grateful for.
Corona viruses are animal in source,
That is, it is transmitted from animals to humans.
Some other viruses, such as Covid-19, also spread from person to person.
These viruses that pass from one person to another spread quickly and for a longer period,
Just like Covid-19.
It is really difficult to get rid of animal diseases
This is because they have animal reservoirs.
One example is the bird flu virus,
Where we can eradicate them on farm animals,
And turkeys and ducks,
But they come back every year because wild birds carry them and bring them to us.
We do not hear much about it
Because bird flu does not spread from one person to another,
But we suffer from outbreaks in poultry farms every year all over the world.
Covid-19 may have moved from animals to humans
At a wild animal market in Wuhan, China.
I will now turn to the less basic parts.
This outbreak is not the last of the major outbreaks that we will see.
There will be other outbreaks, and there will be other outbreaks.
This is not just a possibility, it is a fact.
It is the result of the way we treat humans
And we interact with it on our planet.
Human choices lead us to a state
We will be exposed to other outbreaks.
This is partly due to climate change and what the hot climate does
By making the world a suitable place for the growth of viruses and germs.
It also has to do with the way we eliminate the last wild areas of our planet.
When we burn and uproot the Amazon rainforest trees
In order to have cheap grazing lands,
And when the last parts of Africa's forests become farms,
And when wild animals are caught in China until they become extinct,
Humans have come into contact with wild animal populations
We were not in contact with her before,
These groups have new types of diseases:
Germs, viruses and other things we are not prepared to face.
Bats, in particular, have a knack for hosting diseases
That can infect humans.
But they are not the only animals that do this.
So, as long as we make our remote areas less remote and far away,
Outbreaks will continue to appear.
We cannot stop outbreaks with quarantine or prevent travel.
This is the first idea that comes to everyone's mind:
Let us stop human actions, let us stop this outbreak from happening.
But the truth is that it is very difficult to apply quarantine.
It is very difficult to restrict travel movements.
Even countries that have made huge investments in public health,
Such as the United States and South Korea,
You cannot apply these restrictions quickly enough
So that you can stop an outbreak immediately.
There are logistical reasons for this and other medical reasons.
If we look at Covid-19,
At this very moment, there seems to be a certain period
You are infected and do not show any symptoms
For a period of up to 24 days.
So people who carry the virus roam between us
Without any symptoms.
They were not quarantined.
No one knows that they need quarantine.
There is also a real cost for applying quarantine and travel bans.
Humans are social beings.
And you resist when you try to lock them somewhere
And when you try to separate them from each other.
We have seen the Ebola outbreak
That as soon as the quarantine is applied somewhere,
People start trying to break it.
And people if they knew of a strict stone system
They may not go to seek health care
Because they are afraid of the medical system,
Or they can not afford to pay for it
They do not want to be separated from their family and friends.
Politicians and government officials,
When they know they will be quarantined
If they talk about these outbreaks and injuries,
They may conceal real information
This is due to their fear of applying the stone system.
Of course, this type of evasion and misinformation
It in and of itself makes it very difficult to track the spread of an outbreak.
We can improve stone regulations and travel restrictions,
We must do this.
However, it is not the only solution,
It is not the best solution to deal with these cases.
The real way to make these outbreaks less dangerous in the long run
It is by building a global health system
To support basic health care functions in every country in the world
So that all countries, even poor ones, can
To discover and treat new infectious diseases as soon as they arise.
China has received a lot of criticism for its response to the Covid-19.
But really, what if Covid-19 first appeared in Chad,
Which owns 3,5 doctors per 100,000 people?
What if it first appeared in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Which just allowed the last Ebola patient to leave the hospital after his treatment?
The truth is that countries like these do not have the resources
To respond to an infectious infectious disease,
Not to mention treating the injured
And let alone report it quickly to help the rest of the world.
I led an evaluation of the Ebola treatment centers in Sierra Leone.
The truth is that
Local doctors in Sierra Leone exposed the danger of Ebola very quickly.
As they determined the seriousness of this virus and its ability to infection and cause hemorrhaging,
Then they recognized him as the Ebola virus.
But even though they exposed him, they did not have the resources to respond.
They did not have enough doctors or family members in the hospitals,
They did not have enough information to know how to eradicate Ebola
Or how to apply the basics of controlling infection.
Eleven doctors died in Sierra Leone with Ebola.
And their country had only 120 doctors when this crisis began.
In contrast,
Dallas Baylor Medical Center has more than 1,000 doctors on its staff.
This kind of injustice is what kills humans.
First, it kills the poor when outbreaks spread,
Then it kills all people all over the world
When these outbreaks spread.
If we want to slow the spread of these outbreaks
Reduce its impact,
We need to make every country in the world
You have what it takes to detect and treat these new diseases,
And report it to share this information.
Covid-19 will place a heavy burden on health systems.
I will not talk about death rates in this conversation
Because, frankly, we cannot agree on the Covid-19 mortality rates at this time.
But we can agree on one number
That is, approximately 20% of people with Covid-19
They will need to stay in the hospital.
Our health system in the United States of America can hardly afford these numbers.
But what will happen in Mexico?
Covid-19 has shown real weakness
In the supply chain of our health systems.
Waste-free manufacturing systems are great when everything is fine.
But in times of crisis, this means that we do not have sufficient reserves.
If the masks run out from a hospital or a country
Or self-protection tools,
There is no big warehouse full of boxes we can go to get more of them.
Rather, we have to order more from the distributor, and wait for it to be produced,
And then to ship it, from China in general.
This delay in time occurs at a time when moving forward is the most important thing.
If we were fully prepared for Covid-19,
China would have recognized this outbreak early.
She was to be able to provide care for the injured people
Without the need to build other buildings.
She would have honestly shared the information with her citizens
So we would not have seen these ridiculous rumors spread on social media platforms in China
They will have shared important information with the global health authorities
So they start reporting to the national health systems
They are preparing for the time when the virus will spread.
Thus, national health systems will be able at that time
On stockpile of required preventive materials
Health care providers are trained in treatment methods and infection control.
We will then have systems and protocols based on scientific grounds
What we must do when things arise
The presence of injured persons on a cruise ship.
We will then be sending correct information to humans everywhere,
That we would not have seen shameful and shameful incidents of xenophobia,
Asian people are being beaten on the streets of Philadelphia.
However, we will suffer from outbreaks.
The choices we make are how to live on this planet
You make it inevitable.
As far as we have information from experts about Covid-19, it:
Here in the United States of America and all over the world,
This condition will get worse before getting better.
We see cases of transmission between humans
Without someone returning from traveling,
It occurs automatically in society.
We see people with Covid-19
Without knowing the source of the infection.
These are signs of worse fascism,
Not an outbreak.
It is depressing but not surprising.
And when global health experts talk about scenarios for new viruses,
This is one of the scenarios they expected.
We wished things would go well.
But when experts talked about the virus system,
This is the situation they expected to happen and the way they expected the virus to take.
I want to end my conversation with some personal advice.
Wash your hands!
Wash your hands often!
I know that you wash your hands a lot before now, because you are not disgusted.
But wash your hands more.
Plan and program your lives so that you wash your hands more.
Wash your hands every time you enter or leave a building.
Wash your hands when you enter or leave a meeting.
Follow a hand-washing ritual.
Purify your cell phones.
You touch this phone with dirty hands all the time.
I know you are bringing it with you to the bathroom.
(Laughter)
So cleanse your mobile phone.
And try not to use it too much in public places.
Maybe you should only use Instagram and Talk Tok at home?
Do not touch your face.
Do not rub your eyes.
Do not bite your nails.
Do not wipe your nose with the back of your hand.
I mean, don't do that at all because it's disgusting.
(Laughter)
Do not wear masks on your faces.
Face masks are for patients and health care providers.
If you are ill, your face mask will carry products of your coughs and sneezes
It protects the people around you.
And if you are a healthcare provider,
Your muzzle is one
From the Personal Protective Kit,
That she is trained to use to provide care for patients
And you do not get sick.
If you are a normal, healthy person, wear a muzzle
It will only make your face sweat a lot.
(Laughter)
Leave the gags in the stores
For use by doctors, nurses, and patients.
If you think you have symptoms of Covid-19,
Stay home and call your doctor for advice.
If diagnosed with Covid-19,
Remember, this disease is generally very mild.
And if you are a smoker,
This is the time to quit smoking.
I mean if you are a smoker,
The opportunity is always appropriate to quit smoking.
But if you are a smoker who is worried about getting Covid-19,
I guarantee that quitting smoking is the best thing you can do
To protect yourself from the most dangerous effects of Covid-19.
Covid-19 is scary
At a time when all the news was frightening.
There are many bad and attractive options we can make:
Such as panic, xenophobia, agoraphobia, tyranny,
And simple lies make us believe
Hate, anger and isolation are the solution against outbreaks.
But it is not. It makes us less prepared.
There are a bunch of boring but useful solutions
That we can apply in response to outbreaks,
Like developing healthcare provided here and everywhere;
Investing in healthy infrastructures and disease surveillance
So that we know when the next disease will happen;
Building health systems all over the world;
And strengthening supply chains
So that we are ready in an emergency;
And education, to be able to talk about outbreaks
And calculate the risk
Without just being blind.
We must demand justice
This is because in this case, as in many others
Justice is in our personal interest.
So, thank you very much for your kind attention today.
Let me be the first person to ask you:
Wash your hands when you leave this stage.
(clap)